from transformers import T5Tokenizer, T5ForConditionalGeneration

file_path = '\\Users\\luiss\\Desktop\\test.txt'
open_text = open(file_path, "r", encoding='utf-8')
text = open_text.read()

""" The T5 (Text-to-Text Transfer Transformer) algorithm is a versatile language model developed by Google's AI research team. 
    It is based on the Transformer architecture and 
    is designed to perform a wide range of natural language processing (NLP) tasks using a unified text-to-text framework.

    The key idea behind T5 is to frame all NLP tasks as text-to-text problems. 
    In this framework, both the input and output are represented as text strings, 
    allowing for a unified approach to various NLP tasks, including text classification, 
    summarization, translation, question answering, and more.

    The T5 model consists of a transformer encoder-decoder architecture, 
    similar to the one used in the popular sequence-to-sequence model. 
    It comprises multiple layers of self-attention mechanisms and feed-forward neural networks.

    During training, T5 is trained on a large corpus of text using a variant of the transformer called "masked language modeling." 
    In this approach, some of the tokens in the input text are randomly masked, 
    and the model is trained to predict the original masked tokens. By learning to predict the missing tokens, 
    T5 develops an understanding of the relationships between words and can generate coherent and contextually relevant output.

    To perform a specific NLP task using T5, the input is formatted as a text string that describes the task, 
    followed by a separator token, and then the actual input text. For example, to perform sentiment classification, 
    the input may be: "classify sentiment: This movie is great." The model is then fine-tuned on task-specific data, 
    optimizing its parameters to generate appropriate outputs for the given task.

    T5 has gained popularity due to its versatility and strong performance across a wide range of NLP tasks. 
    It allows for efficient transfer learning, where pre-trained models can be fine-tuned on specific downstream tasks with 
    relatively small amounts of task-specific data.

    It's important to note that the T5 model and its architecture have evolved since its initial release, 
    and there may be variations or improvements to the original implementation. 
    The above description provides a general overview of the working principles of the T5 algorithm. """

"""
    T5 (Text-To-Text Transfer Transformer) is a state-of-the-art language model developed by Google Research. 
    It is a powerful model that can be fine-tuned for a wide range of natural language processing tasks, including text summarization,
    machine translation, question answering, and more. T5 is based on the Transformer architecture, 
    which utilizes self-attention mechanisms to capture contextual relationships in text data. 
    Here's a high-level overview of how T5 works:

1.  Pretraining: T5 is pretrained on a large corpus of text data using a masked language modeling objective. 
    During pretraining, the model learns to predict missing or masked words within sentences based on the surrounding context. 
    This process helps T5 to acquire a general understanding of language patterns and semantic relationships.

2.  Text-To-Text Framework: T5 employs a unified "text-to-text" framework, where all NLP tasks are cast as text generation tasks. 
    This means that input and output pairs are formatted as text strings, and the model is trained to generate the 
    desired output text given the input text. For example, summarization can be framed as "summarize: [input text]".

3.  Fine-tuning: After pretraining, T5 can be fine-tuned on specific downstream tasks. 
    Fine-tuning involves training the model on task-specific data with the objective of optimizing performance on that task. 
    The model is provided with input-output pairs specific to the task and is trained to generate the correct output given the input.

4.  Encoder-Decoder Architecture: T5 uses an encoder-decoder architecture. 
    The input text is encoded into a fixed-length representation called a context vector using multiple layers of self-attention and
    feed-forward neural networks. The context vector is then decoded to generate the desired output text
    using another set of self-attention layers and feed-forward networks.

    
5.  Attention Mechanism: T5 employs self-attention mechanisms, specifically the scaled dot-product attention,
    which allows the model to attend to different parts of the input sequence when generating the output.
    Attention mechanisms help the model capture dependencies between words and capture contextual information effectively.
    
6.  Task-Specific Head: T5 includes a task-specific head, which is a task-specific layer added on top of the model. 
    This layer is responsible for mapping the context vector to the desired output format for the specific task, 
    such as generating a summary or translating a sentence.

    T5's strength lies in its versatility and ability to be fine-tuned for a wide range of natural language processing tasks. 
    By pretraining on a large corpus and fine-tuning on specific tasks, T5 leverages its deep understanding of 
    language patterns to generate accurate and contextually appropriate responses for various language-related tasks. """

def generate_summary(text):
    # Load the pre-trained T5 model and tokenizer
    model = T5ForConditionalGeneration.from_pretrained("t5-base")
    tokenizer = T5Tokenizer.from_pretrained("t5-base", model_max_length=512)
    # Preprocess the text
    preprocess_text = "summarize: " + text
    inputs = tokenizer.encode(preprocess_text, return_tensors="pt")

    # Generate the summary
    outputs = model.generate(inputs, max_length=150, num_beams=2, early_stopping=True)
    summary = tokenizer.decode(outputs[0], skip_special_tokens=True)

    return summary

summary = generate_summary(text)
print(summary)
